Many people in the world die due to human negligence. The patients living in rural areas face difficulties in accessing proper treatment. This system's central concept is to detect the disease and assist doctors by using IoT, Artificial intelligence, Machine learning techniques, and cloud-based data storage (Infrastructure as a Service) to monitor patients and detect the disease in real-time for speedy treatment and conditions post-hospitalization. Cloud-based historical data of patients assist doctors in decision-making.  The concept of this project is to monitor the blood oxygen saturation and Pulse rate of the patients and other medical factors to detect the disease, start the treatment quickly, and assist the doctors. The IoT-enabled patient monitoring and disease detection system provides a real-time graphical user interface for patient monitoring.
In India, 50 lakh people die annually because of human negligence. Also, the doctor to population ratio is 1:1800, which indicates the pressure on the doctor as he has to consult more patients, and it is very tedious for the patients. The IoT-enabled patient monitoring and disease detection system has a user-friendly digital cross-platform interface. It has a cloud-based storeroom. It permits patients to get a speedy treatment. Through the IoT-enabled patient monitoring and disease detection system, patient monitoring and disease detection can be done anytime. As data is stored in the cloud, it also provides personal sensitive data security. It provides medical treatment by leveraging analytics. The main advantage of this system is that the user can take measurements virtually anywhere.
